>> Estelle: Now we're gonna
go on to CSS Gradients.
So here are some examples
of some gradients,
some of them are based on
my old house wallpaper.
But just to show that
they're gradients and
that they're live, we're going to
hideously change the background color.
And so
you see that this is actually a gradient,
cuz I was able to change the background
color, and it went through.
This is one I called Metal Grid.
>> Estelle: And
>> Estelle: There we go.
>> Estelle: This one actually as ugly as
it is, if you chose the right color,
it actually kind of looks nice.
So this wouldn't be the most
hideous of background images if you
wanted to create a gradient and
have the page repeated.
This one I call disco ball,
cuz there's like a radio gradient in
the background and then there's like
these hideous balls in the front.
I'm just moving the slider to
show that these are live and
it's not some image I put back there.
This one I call the star of David,
I guess the most appropriate would
be to make it white and blue.
And then this one is retro 1967,
cuz why not?
And this one reminds me of seat cousins,
if you've ever had a seat cushion with
a little pin in the middle, but you can
pick a seat cushion in any color you want.
There you go, let's blind ourselves.
And this one is actually based on
wallpaper that was in my house,
except for, the color of my
wallpaper was more, yeah, that's it.
That's nice, and when you would be in the
house for a really long period of time,
it would feel like you was doing this.
>> Estelle: Yeah, so
these are all done with gradients,
and then background size,
which we've learned background size,
right?
So a gradient is actually an image, and
it can be used anywhere where
you use an image in CSS.
So it can be used in generated content, it
could be used as a background image, and
it could be used as a list
item image as well.
So it's actually not
just background images,
but 99.999% of the time
that's what you do.
Generally there are considered
to be four types of gradients,
there's linear, repeating linear,
radial, and repeating radial gradient.
I guess you can actually
put it as a cursor,
you could put a gradient as a cursor,
I forgot that there's an image cursor.
>> Estelle: If you want to see this one,
you have to go into Chrome,
Canary, which I will do here.
And here we have conical gradients.
>> Estelle: So coming soon,
because it is actually from Canary which
is the build, or the beta version,
with just a few lines of CSS I was
able to create this conical gradient.
We are not gonna cover conical gradient,
because it's gonna be a while
before the fully covered.
But just realize that this is something
that is coming and it'll be doable, and
it makes it really easy to
do something like that.
>> Estelle: CSS gradients, i's all green,
Opera Mini will forever be red.
And it's not that Opera Mini
is a bad browser,
Opera Mini is actually
a very good browser.
It's very good if you have very limited
bandwidth, or you're paying a lot for
your bandwidth, because what it does
is it basically on Opera's servers,
they create the page for you, and then
they send you just a few HTTP requests,
they send you the produced pages.
So it strips out a lot of stuff, and
provides you with content that's linkable.
But a lot of the features, aren't
supported, because someone who is paying
money to surf the web does not want
to be paying for extra junk, okay.
And it's also on older devices,
and more modern devices,
but It's basically a money saver.